- [Instructor] Usually one of the first projects
Spring developers touch is Spring Data.
And for a good reason, one of the biggest boilerplate areas
of software is in data access and Spring Data
makes data access very easy in most cases.
So what is Spring Data at its core?
It provides a common set of interfaces based on JPA.
These interfaces leverage convention
around method naming to derive data access behavior
using JPA and the Hibernate implementation of it.
This behavior is aspected, which in practice results
in you simply writing an interface
and allowing the code to be handled
by Spring through the use of aspects.
Yes, you write just an interface.
If you have ever written JDBC access code
this is a game changer.
Now, you can still use raw JDBC code
with Spring when it comes to queries
and results set mappings, if you want.
But Spring will handle the connection and tear down for you.
I tend to be in a minority, however,
when it comes to liking raw data access code.
So most developers stop at the interface.
Just know if you need it, it is there.
I have a whole course on JDBC
in the LinkedIn learning library,
if you're feeling adventurous about digging into it.
Now, in addition to behavior, Spring Data provides
the repository pattern natively
and includes data mapping conventions
to translate results sets to entity objects,
much as you would see with JPA and Hibernate.
There are several key benefits of Spring Data,
and I've touched on some of these in the course already,
but before we really get into the code
I think it's worth mentioning them again.
Spring Data removes a lot of the boilerplate code.
I encourage you to do a quick Google search
on how to make a JDBC call using raw Java, I'll wait.
Now, do that before we get deep into the code
because you will immediately see it's reduction
in boilerplate code if you have a reference point.
One cool aspect of Spring Data,
at least for me as an architect,
is that I can use local or embedded data sources
while working on a POC and very easily swap it
to a production data source without much work.
This ability to swap data sources
also makes data migration significantly easier.
All of this, as you have heard already,
allows you to focus on the business logic.
And that is what is, most likely,
the most important thing to you and your boss.
Now, there are only a couple of key components
that you need to understand with Spring Data,
again, adding to its value proposition.
The repository interface is, by far,
the one you will leverage the most.
A Spring Data repository, regardless of if it's based
on an RDBMS system or a NoSQL system provides
the methods needed to access the data.
It is built using an extension
of a Spring class and generics.
We will get into the details here in a bit
but, for now, just understand it is
an interface that leverages proxies
to build the actual base CRUD methods.
Now, you can decorate this interface
with conventionally named methods
to drive different queries for your data,
again, without any SQL, or data access code.
The entity object is the DTO for the data layer.
It is mapped using JPA to the table structure
of the underlying data source.
You can leverage joins through entities,
if you are using RDBMS.
The data source itself is not usually accessed
in code with Spring Data unless
you are using JDBC templates.
But it is what you configure through your properties
or allow to be auto configured by Spring Boot,
if that is the case so even though you may not interact
with it you are using it consistently throughout your code.